
Lockheed P-38 ACFs for XPlane flight simulator
by Uwe Reitter


GENERAL (for realistic handling of the P-38J) :

	No flaps for a normal take-off

	Take-off trim is 3 degrees (you might set the take-off-trim button on joystick)

	Lift off speed clean is 100 MPH

	Control the constant RPM prop by blue sliders or better by a joystick/throttle slider
	- take-off or dogfight at 3,000 RPM
	- climbing, cruising or high-speed at 2,600 RPM.

	Tighten a narrow turn by using flaps det 1. Raise flaps again for accelerating

	Drop external loads to perform dogfight or low speed maneuvers

Like the original P-38 the ACF has only very little snap roll tendency at high G turns.
This snap rolling can easyly be controlled by the automatic outer flaps aileron-boost.
(the outer flap moves 12 DEG down to support the ailerons)


FIGHTER LOADS:

X-Plane guesses a payload weight right between empty weight and gross weight.
What makes sense on civil aircraft, but...
...this means for a P-38 without any outboard load a sensless additional 3,000 lbs of payload.

This messes up the fine close to original behavior and performance of the model.
i.e the clean P-38 YIPPEE will get a strong tendency for doing snap rolls and shows false performance.

So please set after loading the plane in the menu- Settings - Weight & Balance & Fuel - the payload weight
to reasonable 200 - 400 lbs for a pilot plus equippment.

OR JUST INSTALL MY ENCLOSED PLUGIN what does this automatically
for every of my fighters besides other refinements in handling my planes.
It has no negative side effects to any other X-Plane usage. See the install TXT for a brief description.


P-38 FLOAT PLANE:

	For default load take-off, a wave height of 1.0 ft is maximum

	Flaps 30 DEG and accelerate against the wind AND wave direction
	(see weather menu atmosphere and sea)

	Accelerate slowly and pull the stick to stabilize pitch while crossing the waves
	When the plane begins to cross through the waves without pitching up/down (about 70 MPH)
	give full throttle and ease back the stick slowly. The plane soon then reaches lift off speed of 110 MPH

	Load bombs and/or fuel for taking off only at weaker waves

	For sea landing the touch down speed is higher than for landing on a runway.
	It has to be high enough to come from flight smooth to kind of a speed boat glide.
	If you try to land to slow, you will drop in the water and bounce up again.

Unlike the real project the floats can not be dropped in XPlane. The ACF model uses misc bodys because
drop tanks do not produce lift in the water. Never the less the floats add 1,800 lbs fuel each.


FLIGHT MANAGING COMPUTER FMS and AUTOPILOT:

Complete autopilot and GPS is only available in the 2D panel.

Autopilot (not WW-2 authentic) VVI and Speed(ATHR) setting in the related instrument

The wooden clip-board is a disguised FMS and FUEL calculator.

If you decide to do (non WW-2 authentic) GPS and autopilot operations
set the HSI compass source to GPS and press on the FMS clipboard INIT then APT (or VOR or NDB)
and input the ICAO-code of your next waypoint or destination airport.

You can also input a desired flight level for each waypoint.
Append waypoints by pressing next and repeat the input procedure.

When navigation source is set to GPS the autopilot LOC will follow the route,
BC will perform a back-course and VNAV will perform the inputted flight levels,
after you steered your plane manually to the approximate course.

With LD and SA you can save and load your FMS inputs.


Feel free to mail any comment or criticizm! x-plane@reitter.de


